Azure (+ updated logs C7-R9 + created research logs) (#1114)
rug-cit-hpc/league-of-robots: roles/azure_computing/README.md

# Azure compute

## Intro

This is one of three Azure roles

>  - [azure_general](../azure_general/README.md) role creates Azure group which contains the network, VMs, network interfaces, security groups. This helps with an overview of used and available Azure resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [azure_general](../azure_general/README.md) role creates Azure group which contains the network, VMs, network interfaces and security groups. This helps with an overview of used and available Azure resources.
```

>  - [azure_networking](../azure_networking/README.md) role defines and mnages the entire stack of network: networks, sub-networks and security groups within the individual Azure group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [azure_networking](../azure_networking/README.md) role defines and manages the entire network stack: networks, sub-networks and security groups within the individual Azure group.
```

Author: Thanks.

>  - [azure_computing](../azure_computing/README.md) role defines and manages the VMs, their storage, network interfaces, public IP and private IPs inside the invididual Azure group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [azure_computing](../azure_computing/README.md) role defines and manages the VMs, their storage, network interfaces, public IPs and private IPs inside the individual Azure group.
```

## Defining variables

### Static inventory

The most important variables are in `static_inventory/[stack_name].yml`
 - `azure_flavor` - this one triggers the generation of VMs
 - `host_networks` - besides the `azure_flavor` this variables connects the VM to correct azure network

for example
 
```
      hosts:
        earl6:
          azure_flavor: Standard_DS1_v2
          host_networks:
            - name: "{{ stack_prefix }}_internal_management"
              security_group: "{{ stack_prefix }}_logservers"
              assign_floating_ip: true
```
without these two variables the `azure.yml` playbook will fail.

### Group variables

Following variables must be also defined in the `group_vars/[stack_name]/vars.yml`

 - `azure_networks` - must match the `host_networks` name from the `static_inventory/[stack_name].yml`
 - `azure_image` - most of the time we use the same image for longer time, so if you are not sure, it's best to copy paste from another group

>  - (not urgent) `azure_resource_group` is by default already assigned to "{{ stack_name }}", therefore there is no need to define it here, but it could be changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - (optional) `azure_resource_group` is by default already assigned to "{{ stack_name }}", therefore there is no need to define it here, but it could be changed
```

Author: :+1:

for example

```
azure_networks:
  - name: "{{ stack_prefix }}_internal_management"
    external: false
    cidr: '10.10.1.0/24'
    type: management
azure_image:
  rocky9:
    offer: 'rockylinux-x86_64'
    publisher: 'resf'
    sku: '9-base'
    version: 'latest'
azure_resource_group: "{{ stack_name }}"
```

Where

>  - `azure_resource_group` defines a Azure group

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - `azure_resource_group` defines an Azure group
```
